# Histogram Model

This model takes the hand information as input and generates Grayscale images of gestures. It requires the user to input the shape,color, size of hand. This model also takes the lightning conditions into account. The recognition output may vary if the lightning conditions are not similar during recording gestures as well as while recognising gestures.

## Steps to run the code:

### 1. Creating Gestures 

<b>set_hand_histrogram </b> :- This file takes the hand information into account and records the shape, color and size of hand.
Press <b> C </b> for creating histogram. Cover all the squares by hand. Press <b> S </b> to save.

<b> create_gestures </b>:- Run this file only if you want to create or add new gestures.
Press <b> C </b> to start recording the gestures. Use <b> C </b> to Pause as well as Play if needed. Once 1200 images are created the system stops.

<b> flip_images </b> :- To sort out the difference between Left-hand and Right-hand Signing this file is used to flip the gestures created.
It creates another 1200 images of the gestures.

<b> load_images </b> :- Use only when you created new gestures and want to add them to the system.

### 2. Displaying Gestures

<b> display_all_gestures </b> :- It shows the image of all the gestures created in the system.

### 3. Training Model

<b> cnn_tf </b> <p>
<b> cnn_keras </b>

Use any of these 2 files to train the model. Current model uses <b> cnn_keras </b> file.

### 4. Get Model Reports

<b> get_model_reports </b> :- It gives the classification report of the model. It gives confusion matrix, f-scores, precision and recall
for predictions by model.
Make sure that <b>test_images, test_lables </b> file is generated by <b>load images </b>, before getting the models report.

### 5. Recognition

<b>set_hand_histogram </b> :- If a new user wants to test the gestures for recognition, make sure to run the <b>set_hand_histogram </b>
file, so that the model can take the information regarding the user's hand, shape, color, size.

<b> recognize_gesture</b> :- It recognizes the gestures by displaying the text equivalent of gesture in the Right-hand pane. 
